The Project Gutenberg eBook of Loco or Love, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Loco or Love

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: November 13, 2021 [eBook #66722]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LOCO OR LOVE ***




                             LOCO OR LOVE

                           by W. C. Tuttle

     Author of “A Prevaricated Parade,” “Dough or Dynamite,” etc.


“If you’d ’a’ cooked them two eggs at the same time, ‘Magpie,’ ﻿mine
﻿wouldn’t ’a’ rolled off on the floor and busted,” says I, sad-like,
﻿looking at the remains.

Magpie Simpkins rises his full height, which is some elevation, and
glares at me.

“Ike Harper,” says he, “tend to your own cooking. A person what is as
ungrateful as you are can’t partake of my cooking, neither will I
break bread with such as he.”

I got my boots on, cooks me some bacon, and eats as far from that
hombre as the room allows. A house divided can’t ring with harmony,
and love has put a breach as wide as the Grand Cañon between me and
Magpie. The little feller with the bow and arrer has rasped us raw.

Magpie is the sheriff of our county, and I’m his deputy. Me and that
scantling-shaped hombre have been pardners ever since gold was
discovered on bedrock, and this is the first rift in our lute. Of
course there has been discords, but this is the first time that the
strings have all been busted!

Love cometh at strange times. Me and Magpie have been over in the
Medicine Hills, sort of looking for an alleged rustler, and are coming
out, when we sees a nester’s cabin with smoke coming out of the
stovepipe. It’s an old place, and ain’t been occupied for some time,
so we decides to investigate.

We’re a heap hungry, and when we gets in shooting range we smells
fried onions and coffee. There’s an aroma of biscuits on the air, too,
which don’t hurt our noses none.

We pilgrims into the yard, and as we slips off our broncs the door
opens, and we sees our heart’s desire. She’s a cute little filly.
She’s slender, got a lot of eighteen-carat hair, and blue eyes as big
as the end of a shotgun shell.

She’s got a bowl full of dough in her hands, and she stares at us like
we’re curiosities. Sudden-like she smiles.

“I’m Sheriff Simpkins,” states Magpie, removing his hat.

She gives a queer little squeak and drops her bowl on the ground.

“I ain’t done nothing!” says she, sort of vacant-like.

“Ma’am, the queen can do no wrong,” states Magpie. “We smells the
odors of Araby, so our noses brings us hither.”

“Onions,” says she. “Don’t they smell.”

“Perfume of the gods,” says I. “I’d wear one all the time if it wasn’t
for the looks of the thing. I’m your obedient servant, Ike Harper. You
living here alone?”

“Yes,” she nods. “A poor, defenseless woman. I hope there ain’t no
objection to me using this cabin. I’ll take care of it.”

“She’s yours,” pronounces Magpie. “If anybody interferes with your
habitation you send for me.”

“And in case he’s too busy I’ll come,” says I. “He’s a busy man. I’m
sorry he was so quick to startle yuh, and make yuh bust your dough
mug. He’s abrupt that-away.”

“No matter,” says she, “Won’t yuh come in?”

Just wouldn’t we? Say! Them onions was the greatest and the biscuits
was the lightest yuh ever seen. Coffee? Nectar of the gods. There
ain’t much furniture in the place, but what is in there looks
homelike. She’s got a enlarged picture on the wall, the same of which
seems familiar.

“Ma’am,” says Magpie, pointing at it, “would yuh mind telling me who
the distinguished-looking gent is?”

“Was,” says she, sad-like. “He’s gone and——”

“Magpie,” says I, “don’t presume on short acquaintance to stir up sad
memories. There don’t seem to be nothing sacred to him, ma’am.”

She smiles at us, sweet-like, and nods;

“Yes, he’s gone, but his memory lingers. He was a good man.”

“You dang well know he was,” agrees Magpie. “If he wasn’t his picture
wouldn’t be on your walls. What did you say your name was?”

“I didn’t say, Mister Simpkins: I am Lily Lester.”

“Some pretty name. Call me Magpie—pleased to meet yuh.”

“I might not decipher the call if yuh said Mister Harper,” says I.
“Maw used to call me Honey, but Ike suits me fine.”

“Honey!” snorts Magpie. “Not comb-honey, Ike. You ain’t used—”

“Personalities are bad form, Magpie,” I reminds him. “Remember we’re
before a lady. Ma’am, I’d love to drop in once in a while and see how
you’re making it.”

“Do it,” says she, “I’d love to have yuh.”

“Yes’m,” says Magpie. “I will.”

She thanks us—I don’t know what for—and we rides away. We pilgrims off
across the hills towards Piperock, and we takes looks at that cabin
until we’re out of sight.

“Ike, Lily is a lulu,” states Magpie.

“If that’s an expression of admiration I remains torpid, but if that
apellation of lulu reflects on the lady in any way I resents it a
heap.”

“Get a dictionary, Ike,” he grins. “Lulu is a Latin word meaning
‘wonderful’. Ain’t she a wonder? Biscuits! Onions! Ike, I wish you’d
ask her for her recipe for cooking coffee. I sure admire coffee that I
don’t have to chew and what won’t corrode my insides at each meal. I
wonder if she contemplates future matrimony? She don’t need to live
alone, Ike. Reckon I ain’t beyond matrimonial redemption myself. What
do yuh think?”

“If yuh don’t like the way I cook coffee, Magpie, you can cook it
yourself. And as far as matrimony and you are concerned, you’d be like
a three-legged turtle trying to catch a scared wolf. There ain’t
nothing about you to catch the female fancy.

“In the first place, you’re too long. No woman wants to look up a
lodge-pole all her life. An occasional glance at your face ain’t going
to hurt nobody, but as a steady diet—no!”

“Faces,” he states, “ain’t so much. Brains and companionship counts a
heap more. You suffers a heap that-away, Ike. You’re pretty in the
face—like a buffalo, and about as companionable as a porkypine, but
when it comes to brains you ain’t got a trump. I’ll likely ride her
way very soon.”

“Me, too. Likely tomorrow.”

“Yes, and likely yuh won’t, Ike!” he snorts. “You’re working for me.
Sabe? You goes where I sends yuh.”

“If you think for a holy minute that I ain’t going to have no leisure
time, Magpie, you think again. You get too cocky, old-timer, and I’ll
quit or take a vacation. Sabe?”

“Don’t fly off the handle, Ike,” he advises. “Nobody ever said yuh
couldn’t have no leisure time. You hops off half-cocked. Also you’re
contrary. Did yuh ever hear about the dog what got in the manger? He
couldn’t eat the hay, and he wouldn’t let the bronc eat it.”

“If you figures yourself as the bronc in that moral, Magpie, you lose.
Your ears are too long, old-timer. Where do yuh get the idea that I
can’t get the lady? I made a living before I met you. The only thing I
ever done that I was ashamed of was the day I pinned your star on my
bosom. You thinks just because you’re a sheriff you’re better than
most folks. You didn’t grab any honors when you beat ‘Shep’ Allen for
sheriff. He’s blind in one eye and string-halted in both legs. Just
let me whisper something to you, Magpie: if you don’t grab some of
these cow thieves——”

“Ike, you can desist. I’m doing all that a mortal man can do. If I had
a deputy that was worth a cuss I’d——”

                  *       *       *       *       *

That’s a sample of our conversation on the way home. Being partners
for so long, we hates to say hateful things to each other, but in a
case like this the truth does seep out. We gets real personal before
we gets to Piperock, and finds Zeb Abernathy and “Scenery” Sims
setting in front of our office, waiting for us.

Zeb looks just like you’d bet he would after hearing his name, but no
name on earth could give an impression of Scenery. When I look at him
I think thusly:

“The person what built you, Scenery, must ’a’ run mighty short of
material. They looks yuh over and says—‘It ain’t much of a man, but
I’ll put a squeak in it so growed-up folks won’t step on it
accidental-like.’”

They looks up at us as we rides in. Zeb almost unjoins his neck trying
to expectorate across the street, crosses his legs and squints—

“Any news, Magpie?”

“Hello, Zeb,” says Magpie. “Nothing new. Heard anything?”

“Bank got robbed today,” squeaks Scenery. “Dog-gone thing got
absolutely robbed. I been telling everybody that we ain’t got no
protection around here. Whole sheriff’s office couldn’t find a ace in
a new pack of cards. Ain’t yuh going to do nothing?”

“I know something I’d like to do,” states Magpie, looking down at
Scenery. “You keep your squeak in your chest and let Zeb tells us
about it. What happened, Zeb?”

“While you fellers are picking flowers over in the hills a feller
rides into town, throws down on the cashier with a gun and lopes off
with the treasure. He told the cashier to give you his regards. What
yuh going to do, Magpie?”

“Cry a little,” says Magpie, tired-like. “I don’t reckon there is much
else to do. Some of you folks gets the idea that just because I wears
a star all I got to do is yell, ‘Come here, ye outlaws!’ and they’ll
come a-running.”

“What I want to know is what are yuh going to do?” squeaks Scenery.
“When we elects yuh sheriff——”

“They,” corrects Magpie. “You voted for Allen, Scenery.”

“Then I got something to be proud of. I’m glad that folks can’t hold
me responsible for you.”

Him and Zeb ambles off up-town, and we goes inside.

“There ain’t no joy in being a sheriff!” yelps Magpie, throwing his
boots over in the corner. “Your duty sort of keeps yuh from pulling a
gun and acting free-like. I’m going out tomorrow and get that bad,
bad-man, Ike. You watch me.”

The next morning he shaves careful-like, and greases his boots.

“Going to try and make a mash on him?” I asks. “You ought to have some
perfume, Magpie. You look like a bridegroom.”

“Ike,” says he, ignoring the compliment, “I wants you to ride up to
Sullivan Gulch, and see if anybody’s living there. We got to locate
something or somebody pretty soon.”

“Where you going?” I asks.

“Into the breaks between here and the Circle-Cross.”

I rides out of Piperock with joy in my heart, ’cause I’m going in the
general direction of my heart’s desire, and Magpie has gone the
opposite. What do I care for outlaws? Duty to me is self-preservation.

Me and Magpie meets at the door. We nods like distant relatives, and
each knocks on our side of the door. The lady makes us welcome, and we
sets down.

“I’m so glad to see yuh,” says she, and Magpie walks plumb across the
room to shake hands with her.

“I wish I’d ’a’ known yuh was coming today,” she states. “I’d ’a’ had
yuh bring me some stuff from town.”

“Well, ma’am,” says Magpie, “if there’s anything yuh want I can send
Ike after it. What’s the use of having hired men if yuh don’t use ’em.
Tell me what your heart desires.”

“I ain’t got no time,” says I, “I’m headed for Sullivan Gulch. I’d
love to do it, ma’am, but I’m rushed. Magpie’s just loafing, so he’ll
be glad to do it.”

Magpie glares at me and I glares right back at him.

“How lovely,” coos this here lady. “It will be lovely.”

“We’ll both go, Ike,” states Magpie. “I got a little job of work in
Piperock that you can attend to while I’m bringing the stuff back.
Write out your list, ma’am, and I’ll deliver it right to your door.”

Me and Magpie pilgrims back to Piperock in silence, buys the stuff for
the lady, and goes down to the office.

We finds Buck Masterson on the steps.

“Howdy, Buck,” says Magpie. “What can I do for yuh?”

“Well, unless you improves your ways I don’t reckon yuh can do
anything,” says Buck, sort of helpless-like. “I been robbed!”

“_Pshaw!_” says I. “How comes that, Buck?”

“Feller—same one what robbed the bank, I reckon—comes into my saloon
this morning, sticks a gun in my face and annexes what I got in the
safe. Said he knowed the sheriff was away. Say, Magpie, what in —— are
you doing? Sending out proclamations of your absence?”

I don’t care to listen to no such conversation, so I goes inside, and
pretty soon Magpie and Buck pilgrims up-town. I takes that stuff,
throws it on a hoss, and points for the lady of my dreams.

                  *       *       *       *       *

I gets almost to her place, when Magpie overtakes me. We rides up,
deposits stuff and partakes of a light lunch.

“I’m a outlaw-hunter,” states Magpie, during the meal. “It’s a
precarious existence, fraught with much danger, and takes a man of
nerve.”

“Romantic,” says she. “And what does Mister Harper do?”

“He holds my bronc.”

“While you runs,” says I. “Magpie don’t want to be bothered with no
bronc when he gets scared, ma’am. If I was the sheriff of this county
I’d keep her swept clean of outlaws, believe me. It irks me some to
take orders when I know they ain’t getting us no place.”

“Do you suppose I’m in any danger living here alone?” she asks.

“If I thought you was I couldn’t sleep,” orates Magpie. “You need the
protection of a man. If you——”

“You hadn’t ought to be here alone,” I states. “Of course I’d love to
stay here with you, but—there’s a preacher in Pipe-rock, ma’am.”

“Preachers ain’t no protection,” states Magpie. “Being sort of a legal
guardian of this here county, I’d admire to—”

“Magpie, you ain’t got no time,” I reminds him. “You got to
investigate that bank robbery and the one in Buck’s place. You’ve said
yourself that I ain’t no help to you. Why don’t yuh appoint me to look
after the weaker sex in this county?”

“Ike, after knowing you as long as I have, I’d hate to call ’em the
weaker sex.”

“Oh, I’m not afraid,” she states. “As long as I’ve got two big strong
men looking after me I feel safe. I do hope you can come often. Can’t
you come tomorrow?”

“I can,” says Magpie. “Of course Ike will have to stay and tend to the
office routine work. It ain’t much but it’s got to be done.”

“Routine work,” says I to Magpie, as we pilgrims back. “What routine,
Magpie?”

“Seeing that nobody breaks into jail without showing a warrant,” he
grins. Pretty soon he heaves a long sigh, and turns in his
saddle—“Ike, it ain’t going to be long before you’ll be cooking grub
for yourself alone.”

“It sure ain’t,” I agrees. “I begins tonight. Your feller-feelings are
paralyzed, Magpie Simpkins, and no more do I cook for an ungrateful
hombre like you. Dang your slim soul! You ain’t noways good enough for
that lady.”

“Ain’t it true,” he agrees. “But I’m getting better all the time, Ike.
Didn’t yuh notice how the tears comes to her eyes, and how her breast
heaved when I spoke about losing sleep? And then you—dang yuh! You has
to cut in with that sky-pilot talk when I’m getting right down to
business. If I had five minutes alone with her I’d have her hand.”

“I’ll bet yuh would,” I agrees. “A feller what can lie as fast as you
can hadn’t ought to take that long.”

“You’re one of the kind what makes love by main strength and
awkwardness, Ike. Your idea of a courtship is to take a damsel by the
hair, drag her home, slam her into a corner, and then hammer her with
a boot if she can’t cook. You say I’d lie to her. You got to, Ike. No
woman was ever told the truth when she was proposed to. She don’t want
the truth.”

“I never beat up no woman, Magpie,” I advises him. “Also I ain’t no
second George Washington.”

That night we cooks separate meals, and I got all the best of it,
’cause Magpie can’t cook. The next morning he beats me to it. We’ve
only got two eggs left, and of course he has to let mine roll off on
the floor. Now we’re back where this tale began, with him orating
about breaking bread with me.

“Old trailer,” says I, “if you baked the bread, we couldn’t break it.”

He don’t reply—just snorts, so we eats on opposite sides of the shack.

Some of Piperock’s prominent citizens come down to see Magpie, and
their conversation leads us to believe that we’re incompetent. They
hints around that they might ’a’ made a mistake when they elects
Magpie. Magpie sighs deep-like, and tells them to not take snap
judgment, ’cause he’s going out to get that feller right soon. Art
Miller gets Magpie off to one side and speaks to him in whispers.
Magpie shakes his head, emphatic-like, and Art acts disgusted. After
they’re gone I asks Magpie what Art wanted.

“He’s timid. Got some gold going out on the stage today and says he
hates to take a chance. Said it was my duty to see that he got through
safe-like. Safe ——!”

“He’s right,” says I. “Its your duty, Magpie. I’ll go up and see if
the lady needs anything. You can’t shirk all your responsibility.”

Magpie smokes a while and nods:

“I reckon you’re right, Ike. The office has to protect them what needs
it, so I’ll send you. I was thinking of the pleasant time you and me
was going to have up at that little cabin today, but since your
oration about duty I reckon we’ll have to help Art out. You just tell
him I sent you for a guard. Who yuh writing to, Ike?”

“You,” says I, looking up from my labor. “This is my resignation,
Magpie.”

“Coward!” says he, soft-like.

The Harper tribe are a peacefully inclined lot of human beings, and
forgiving to a startling degree, but that word means light. I hits him
in the neck, with the ink-bottle, and then we tangles.

When we gets through I’m on the floor with the stove in my lap, while
Magpie sets half-way out of the door with a chair hung around his
neck. Just then Scenery Sims sticks his head in the window, and yelps:

“What’s this? What’s this?”

I lakes one of the legs off that stove, and bounces it off his head
and yells:

“A draw! You squeaky fool!”

We hears his boots just hitting the ground at intervals of three
seconds, as he labors back up-town.

Magpie wipes some of the blood and ink off his forehead, and glares at
me.

“You’re too danged touchy!” he wails.

“We sure do look like making social calls, now don’t we?”

“I wouldn’t face her for a million,” says he.

“Neither would I,” says I.

I cleans my face the best I can, and walks over to the door. I takes
off my star and tosses it on the table.

“Magpie,” says I, “I’m all through. No more will I chase the festive
outlaw. From now on I’m going to be a common citizen, and entitled to
come down here and raise thunder with you for not tending to your
duty. I’m wise to you, old-timer. Being a ordinary citizen and
entitled to protection I hereby audibly objects to you frittering the
county’s time away making love. Remember, Magpie, I knows your secret.
Sabe?”

I goes over to the barn and saddles up. I ain’t in no shape to fawn
over a lady, but the call of love is strong upon me and I
unconsciously rides in her direction. I forgets time and distance, and
all of a sudden I’m at her door and she’s smiling at me.

“Ma’am,” says I, “I know I looks repulsive, but my heart is in the
right place. I been in a awful fight, and when a man’s wounded he
flies away to where his heart is.”

“Where is the sheriff?” she asks.

The question hurts, but I conceals my grief.

“Why worry about that sandhill crane?” I replies. “I reckon he’s
forgot yuh already, ma’am. I quit him today, and I’m glad of it. I’m
of age and fancy free, ma’am, I know I ain’t much to look at. I’m a
regular old pelican, and I ain’t so pure as snow, but I’m getting
better—thank yuh. When a woman comes into a man’s life it sure cleans
house with him. The minute I sees your face I says to myself: ‘There
she is, Ike. There’s the one woman——’”

                  *       *       *       *       *

We hears the rattle of a bronc’s hoofs and then—

“Whoa!”

I hops to the window and sees Magpie Simpkins, and then I ducks and
yelps:

“Where can I hide? I don’t want to see him.”

“Under the bed,” she whispers. “Hurry!”

I skids under the bunk. The blanket hangs almost to the floor, and
hides me fine. She opens the door and lets Magpie in.

“Ma’am,” says he, “I’m sorry to come to see yuh looking like this, but
I promised yuh I’d come, and I’d ’a’ done it if it took my last drop
of blood. I had a awful fight with a outlaw. All I had was my bare
hands and ability against his modern weapons, and of course I didn’t
come through unscathed.”

“And the outlaw?” she asks, interested like. “What of him?”

“Ma’am,” Magpie replies, weary-like, “he crawled away to die. Like a
animile wounded unto death he crawled out of mortal sight to cash his
chips.”

I hears Magpie sigh deep-like again, and then continues:

“Ma’am, I’m—a—a common old coot. I’ve lived alone so long that I can’t
seem to release the words that clamors in my bosom to be spoke. Until
I seen your face I ain’t given a thought to a double rig. I’m pure in
mind and of a forgiving nature. I asks yuh—please don’t smile, ma’am.
This is a serious chore with me. I come here for succor——”

“A, Magpie,” I corrects him, aloud. “A sucker.”

There is silence for some time. I hears Magpie’s boots scrape
nervous-like on the floor, and he clears his dry throat.

“Did—did you hear somebody speak?” he asks.

She must ’a’ shook her head, ’cause he shuffles his feet again and
says:

“Reckon I’m getting jumpy. Well, ma’am, what do yuh think of the
proposition?”

“Where is Mister Harper today?” she asks, ignoring his question.

I peeks out from under the bed and I sees Magpie’s feet real close to
me. There’s a piece of rope laying between his heels and the chair
leg. Magpie is scared of snakes, and it gives me an idea.

“Ma’am,” says he, “let’s not speak of that person. He done me dirt.
Just when I needs him bad he up and quits me. For why? Because he’s
scared. That feller ain’t got no nerve a-tall. So long as he can lay
around and do nothing but wear a star he’s a hy-iu officer, but the
minute he sees a little trouble showing up he quits cold. I hates a
coward, ma’am. No man can ever say that a Simpkins flinched when
danger came his——”

“_Z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z!_” says I, and begins drawing that rope past his
heels.

He freezes to his chair for about three seconds, and then just hits
the floor once before he exits through the door. I rolls out the side
of the bed, slips the window open and drops out of the back of the
cabin. I gets a glimpse of the lady’s face as I slides over the sill,
and she’s got tears running down her face.

I figured that this here ain’t the proper time for me to make marriage
proposals to the lady, and after taking one good look at her face, as
I flopped over the window sill, I don’t figure that Magpie will stand
much show of getting her to sign up for life.

My bronc has drifted around to the back, which is the reason Magpie
never saw it, so I leads it away from there and laughs all the way
home.

I rides up to Buck Masterson’s saloon, and meets Pete Gonyer and a
stranger. They immediate and soon surrounds me.

“Ike, this is Mister Brand,” states Pete, and I shakes the hand of
this stranger person. “Mister Brand would talk with somebody from the
sheriff’s office, Ike, so I turns him loose on you.”

Pete wanders away and me and Mister Brand sets down on the sidewalk.
He pulls out a couple of photygrafts and hands ’em to me.

“Look at them and see if yuh recognize either one,” says he.

There’s something familiar about one of them but the other one is a
complete stranger. I can’t place the other one, but there’s a trace
some place.

“That’s ‘Kid’ Corey,” says he. “This other one is ‘Blazer’ Bailey.
They’re a clever pair. Artists in the hold-up line. I’m a Federal
officer. They been grabbing off a lot of registered mail lately, and
the last stunt they pulls off was over on the main line. The Kid got
hit, but somehow they both got away and headed across the divide in
this direction. You been having so much trouble over here that I
decides to look into it. It may not be them—don’t look like their
work, ’cause your cases have all been one man.”

“Blazer is a big husky, but Corey wouldn’t cause yuh to look twice. He
used to be a sort of a actor, I believe.”

“Well, I can’t help yuh much,” says I. “Yuh see I ain’t connected with
the sheriff’s office no more. Maybe the sheriff can give yuh some
information, but I doubt it. I know everything he does and all that I
naturally knows myself, but I can’t help yuh none.”

“I’ve heard some uncomplimentary things about the office,” he admits,
“folks around here seems to bare their feelings. Much obliged anyway,
Mister Harper.”

I goes down to the office to get my effects, when Magpie comes in. He
sets down and pretends to read a paper.

“Where yuh been?” I asks, he yawns and folds up the paper. “Hunting
around a little.”

I sets down on the table and rolls a smoke.

“Magpie,” says I, “what do yuh know about snakes?”

He drops the paper and sets up straight in his chair. He’s got sort of
a foolish look about his face, and he sort of gawps at me:

“Uh-uh—snakes? I—I don’t sabe, Ike?”

“I didn’t think yuh did. A man’s a sucker to ask questions of folks he
knows can’t answer ’em.”

He uncoils from his chair, slides his gun around to the front and
faces me.

“Ike, I got a question to ask you. Were you——”

Just then the door bangs open, and in comes Art Miller, all out of
wind. He flops in a chair and pants:

“I—I told yuh! The—uh—uh—stage was huh-held up. About fuf-five miles
down the road. Took all I had—dang the luck!”

“Mail, too?” I asks, and he nods. “Everything, I told yuh!”

“Well, well!” says I. “That must ’a’ been Kid Corey or Blazer Bailey.
Worthy of your steel. Magpie.”

“Well, ain’t yuh going to move?” yelps Art. “Going to let ’em get
plumb away as usual?”

“Which way did they go?”

“Towards Paradise. Yuh never can tell which way he went after he got
out of sight.”

“Any danged fool knows that,” agrees Magpie. “I reckon I better go
after him.”

“I reckon yuh better had,” pants Art, and then lopes back up-town.

Magpie fusses around getting ready, oiling his guns and fixing a cinch
on his saddle.

“You sure do go right after ’em, Magpie,” says I. “You ought to be
called ‘Sudden’ Simpkins. Don’t let me hurry yuh. I’ll go away so yuh
can oil your boots and shave. Haste makes waste, Magpie.”

                  *       *       *       *       *

I goes up-town, and she’s boiling. They’re organizing a posse to work
independent of the sheriff’s office, but I don’t join. I got sweeter
things to think of than killing or incarcerating my feller men. The
little feller without no pants on, carrying a bow and arrer seems to
beckon me.

I forks my bronc and rides north, lingering along, building
air-castles and so forth. My bronc ain’t none too energetic, and we
consumes plenty of time.

I dips into a cañon and rides up a cow trail, when a man with a
pack-animile cuts my path, and I recognizes Magpie Simpkins. I keeps
behind him, and pretty soon he gets off his bronc and seems to be
picking up something off the ground. I rides up slow behind him, and
rolls a smoke. The son-of-a-gun is so busy he don’t hear me until I
clears my throat and then he whirls around with his hands full of
flowers.

We looks at each other for half a minute, and then he grins, sort of
foolish-like and holds out his hands:

“Daisies,” says he. “Daisies.”

“Not today, little girl,” says I. “I ain’t got no water to put ’em
in.”

“Dang fool,” he snorts.

“That’s what I thought when I rode up.” I agrees. “From the looks of
your pack I’d say you was on a protracted trip, I thought Art said the
robber went south.”

“Uh-huh,” he nods, smelling his bouquet. “I got to deliver this load
before I’m free to hunt outlaws, Ike.”

“For her?” I asks, and he nods.

“She’s paying for it, ain’t she?”

“Do you think I’d let her?” he snaps. “A feller’s got to do something
for his sweetheart, ain’t he? I paid for that other load, too.”

“I’m going down and kill that storekeeper,” says I. “I did, too.”

“Haw!” says Magpie, when I begins to laugh.

He hauls out a roll of bills, and spits on his thumb.

“How much did yuh pay, Mister Harper?”

“Seventeen-fifty,” says I, and he counts it out and hands it to me.
“That squares it, I don’t want her under obligations to no other man.
Sabe?”

“You think for a minute that you can buy me off?” says I. “You think
my heart’s love is for sale—for seventeen-fifty? When did you get a
mortgage on the lady, Mister Simpkins?”

“We’ve come to an understanding,” he states. “She accepts my
protection, exclusive. Well, I must be going on. Adios.”

He moves on and I rides with him. It sort of irritates him, and he
swings around in his saddle.

“Harper,” says he—that’s the first time he ever called me just
Harper—“Harper, you’ve heard that old saying, ‘Three is a crowd’?
Well, I don’t like crowds. Sabe?”

“The back-trail is open,” says I, “You can’t give me orders.”

“Dang you, Ike!” he wails. “Ain’t you got no finer feelings?”

“Not since I lived with you, Magpie. You’d blunt a piledriver.”

We sets there and glares at each other for a spell. I rolls a smoke,
and he follers suit.

“No bowels of compassion?” he asks, sad-like.

“Not a gut.”

“Ike,” says he, after a while, “will you do me a favor? Just for old
times’ sake, Ike?”

“Shoot,” says I.

“Well, Ike, I—I—I sort of got—well, she’s beginning to see things my
way, and all I asks is ten minutes alone with her. You stay away for
ten minutes after I goes inside, and then you can come in and
congratulate the happy couple. Will yuh do it, Ike?”

“That’s a mighty big favor, Magpie,” I observes after sufficient
thought. “You and me been more or less friendly for years and years,
Magpie, and—well, I’ll do it. I’ll give yuh ten minutes start of me.
Cut your wolf loose and go a-howling.”

“Ike,” says he, with tears in his voice, “you’ll never regret it. As
soon as we’re married I’ll have you up to supper.”

“If you can propose in ten minutes, Magpie, I’ll cook for you all the
rest of your life for nothing. Propose in ten minutes! Why, you can’t
spit inside of fifteen. Go ahead and have it over with.”

We pilgrims on until we tops a hill above her cabin. I stops there and
lets Magpie go on down. I’m to stick there until I figures that I can
make the cabin ten minutes after he goes inside.

I rolls a smoke and watches him take his animile around to the back,
and then open the door and walk right inside.

“Getting danged familiar,” says I to my bronc. “Going in without
knocking.”

I’m glancing around the landscape, when I sees two men on hosses cut
across behind me not a quarter of a mile away. Suddenlike I sees some
more off to my left. They’re acting queer, so I spurs my bronc for a
better place to see.

_Zow-w-w-w. Flup-p-p-p._

A bullet goes past my ear, and another sticks into the ground a few
feet short and fills my bronc’s eyes full of sand.

“Bronc,” says I, “somebody desires our de-mise. Let’s away.”

I sticks the spurs in his ribs, and races down the hill. That cabin is
the best cover in sight and, while I may be a little ahead of time, I
feels that Magpie will forgive me.

I hits that door just ahead of a handful of lead and sort of busts up
the courtship. The lady looks sort of sick, and when I busts in Magpie
pulls his guns.

“Everybody get down low!” I yelps.

“Who and what is it, Ike?” asks Magpie, ducking when a bullet dusts
some of the mud from between the logs near his face.

“Danged if I know! They smokes me up and chases me here.”

“Save me!” yelps the lady, sprawling on the bunk. “I’m sick as ——!”

Such language makes me glance up, but I glues my eyes back to that
crack again, where I got some chinking pushed out. I sees a bronc’s
legs, so I elevates the muzzle of my gun and salutes him.

                  *       *       *       *       *

A couple of bullets whispers logs, so I rolls over past the bed. My
elbow bumps on something, and I glances down.

“Come here!” I yells. “Here’s a cellar!” and I begins tugging at the
carpet what covers the door. If the carpet hadn’t been ripped I’d ’a’
never found it. Magpie skids over to me on his hands and knees, and
begins heaving on the handle.

“Don’t!” yelps the lady. “Don’t go down there! There’s a—a—snake down
there!”

“Preferable to hot lead,” I yells, and slips over the square hole in
the floor.

Magpie don’t wait to crawl down—he hopped. _Bang._ A gun explodes
right at my lower extremity, and I feels that I got to buy a new pair
of suspenders. It sure was close. I lets loose and drops about seven
feet. The door drops back and we’re in darkness.

“Did I fall on yuh, Ike?” asks Magpie.

“You did not,” says I, groping around.

“Well, I fell on somebody,” he proclaims. “Got a match handy?”

I lights a match and sees Magpie setting on a man’s stummick. The
feller looks sort of yaller in the face, and I don’t think he’s got
much fight left in his carcass, He’s still got a gun in his hand, the
same of which we removes. Magpie looks him over and snaps some
bracelets on his wrists.

“Safety first, Ike,” says he. Another match shows a rifle against the
wall. Sudden-like Magpie remembers.

                                PART I

    _The Governess:_ And, perhaps, Mabel, as they are not black
  and as they are not beetles, you will in future call them cockroaches.
    _Mabel:_ Certainly, Miss Smith, although they are not cocks
  and they are not roaches.                          (_Punch._)


In ‘The Minor Horrors of War,’ we rather neglected the Navy—the
senior Service, and till now the more dominant of our two magnificent
forces—partly because it is less interfered with by insect pests than
is the sister Service, though the common pests of our poor humanity—the
flea, the louse, the bug—are, like the poor, ‘always with us.’ Like
aeroplanes, insects have captured the air; like motors, they have made
a respectable show on land; but they have signally failed at sea. They
have nothing corresponding to battleships or submarines; and a certain
bug, called _Halobates_, alone hoists the insect flag on the ocean, and
that only in the warmer waters.

 [Illustration: FIG. 1.—_Periplaneta orientalis_, male. × 2. Dorsal
 view. 1, Antenna; 2, palp of first maxilla; 3, prothorax; 4, anterior
 wings; 5, femur of second leg; 6, tibia; 7, tarsus; 8, cerci anales;
 9, styles. (From Kükenthal.)]

Insects are not only highly intelligent animals, but are by far the
most numerous and dominant class of the Animal Kingdom; and they have
probably come to conclusions about themselves and the sea, comparable
to those expressed by Dr. Johnson about man and the ocean: ‘To all the
inland inhabitants of every region the sea is only known as an immense
diffusion of waters, over which men pass from one country to another,
and in which life is frequently lost.’

But one insect at least causes more trouble to sailors than to
soldiers—and that is the cockroach. Like the bed-bug, the cockroach
came into England at the end of the sixteenth century, and, like the
bed-bug, it came from the East. It seems to have been first introduced
into England and Holland in the spacious times of Henry VIII by the
cross-sea traffic, and from about the end of the sixteenth century the
cockroach began gradually to spread throughout the Western world. Like
the rat, the bed-bug, and the domestic fly, it has become thoroughly
acclimatised to human habitations, and is indeed an associate of man.
It is very rarely found living apart from some form or other of human
activity.

This insect seems to have been first described in England in
Moufet’s ‘Insectorum Theatrum,’ 1634, and he speaks of it as living
in flour-mills, wine-cellars, &c., in England, and he tells us how
Sir Francis Drake took, in 1584, the _San Felipe_, a Spanish East
Indiaman, laden with spices and burdened with a great multitude of
flying cockroaches on board.

This species was _Periplaneta orientalis_; but there is another and a
larger species, which presumably came into England from the West later
than its Eastern cousin _P. americana_—which can frequently be seen in
England running about in the cages in our zoological gardens—but it is
not on exhibition, it is a by-product, and is not counted in the fee
for admission to the gardens.

Latter tells us there are ten species of BLATTODEA which occur in
Britain; but only three of these are indigenous, and these three all
belong to the genus _Ectobia_. _Ectobias_ are smaller than cockroaches,
and do not frequent human habitations, but live in shrubs, under
rubbish heaps, &c. Some species of _Ectobia_ are, however, very
destructive and have been known to destroy in one day the whole
accumulation of dried but not properly salted fish in a Lapland
village. Of the remaining species of cockroach most are local, and
occur sporadically in particular factories, or places where food is
stored but they are not very widely spread.

As we have said above, _P. orientalis_ is the common English cockroach,
_P. americana_ occurs especially in zoological gardens and menageries;
but a third species, _P. germanica_, sometimes gets established.
Mercifully, _P. germanica_ does not seem to spread. Neither _P.
germanica_ nor _P. americana_ seem to make much headway against _P.
orientalis_, which appears to be predominant over both these other
species.

_P. germanica_ is probably most methodical, very thorough, very
brave, very faithful—but rather lacking in the power of understanding
the point of view of others. If it has any association with its
specific name, it illustrates the most striking example in the world’s
history of the divorce of wisdom from learning. ‘O Lord! give us
understanding,’ should be the prayer of _P. germanica_.

Miall and Denny tell us that from the first introduction of _P.
orientalis_ into England it took two centuries before it spread far
beyond London. In 1790 Gilbert White speaks of it as ‘an unusual
insect, which he had never observed in his house till lately,’
and, indeed, at the present moment many English villages are still
blissfully ignorant of this particular nuisance.

As Fig. 2 shows, the cockroach is a somewhat slackly put
together insect. One might almost call it rather slatternly and
loose-jointed—and the latter it certainly is. Its head moves freely on
the thorax, and the thorax on the abdomen. The successive segments
of the latter move very freely on one another. The legs are long and
mobile, and so are the antennae with which the animal is ceaselessly
testing the ground over which it flits hither and thither in its
restless activity.

 [Illustration: FIG. 2.—_Periplaneta orientalis_, male. × 2. Side
 view. 1, Antenna; 2, head; 3, prothorax; 4, anterior wing; 5, soft
 skin between terga and sterna; 6, sixth abdominal tergum; 7, split
 portion of tenth abdominal tergum; 8, cercianales; 9, styles; 10, coxa
 of third leg; 11, trochanter; 12, femur; 13, tibia; 14, tarsus; 15,
 claws. (From Kükenthal.)]

Cockroaches are very difficult to catch. They practically never walk,
but run with a hardly believable rapidity, darting to and fro in an
apparently erratic mode of progression. Even when caught they are
not easily retained, for they have all the slipperiness of a highly
polished billiard-ball. They have great powers of flattening their
bodies, and they slip out of one’s hand with an amazing dexterity.
Besides their slipperiness they have another weapon, and that is a
wholly unpleasant and most intolerable odour, which is due to the
secretion of a couple of glands situated on the back of the abdomen.
The glands which produce this repellent odour are sunk in the soft
membrane which unites the fifth and sixth abdominal segments, and
the moment a cockroach is attacked it exudes a sticky, glue-like
fluid, which gives out this most unendurable smell. The fluid is
extraordinarily tenacious and difficult to remove from the hand of
those who have touched the insects. No doubt the cockroach, in nature,
finds safety in this from the attacks of insectivorous animals.

Cockroaches, as has been said, very rarely walk, they nearly always
run, and they advance the first and third leg of one side at the same
time as the middle leg of the other, pulling themselves forward with
their front legs and pushing themselves forward with the hindermost.
They are thus constantly poised on a tripod. They occasionally, but not
very often, use their wings for flight. When they do so, their anterior
wings are stretched out at right angles to the body, and take no active
share in beating the air. They act in effect as monoplanes. It is the
hinder wings which really do the active flying. After a flight, the
hinder wings are shut up something in the manner of a fan.

The flattened coxae, or thighs, of the leg are adapted for shovelling
débris back from beneath the body when the insect is enlarging its
habitation. When the cockroach gets into a dusty ‘_milieu_’ the dust
is immediately removed; the hairs on the legs act as clothes-brushes
and brush every part of the body, whilst the antennae, which attract
any dust in the neighbourhood, are repeatedly drawn through the closed
mandibles and so cleaned. A cockroach is able to walk on smooth
surfaces because it possesses between the joints of the tarsus certain
soft, white patches, very velvety, and these give the creature a good
hold, and prevent slipping even on glass.

Cockroaches will eat pretty well everything. They are a great nuisance
on board ship, where they are said to gnaw the skin and nibble the
toe-nails of sailors. Hardly any animal or vegetable substance
is absent from their menu. It is said that they will even devour
bed-bugs, and that natives on the African shores, troubled by these
semi-parasites, will beg cockroaches as a favour from sailors in
passing ships.

 [Illustration: FIG. 3. Mouth appendages of _Periplaneta_ (magnified).
 A, Mandible. B, First maxilla: 1, cardo; 2, stipes; 3, lacinia; 4,
 galea; 5, palp. C, Right and left second maxillae fused to form the
 labium: 1, submentum; 2, mentum; 3, ligula, corresponding to the
 lacinia; 4, paraglossa, corresponding to the galea; 5, palp. (From
 Latter.)]

The mandible (Fig. 3), with its strongly toothed surface, is capable
of biting and grinding into fragments a very varied diet. The food is
moistened by the secretion of the salivary glands, which is capable of
converting starch into the more soluble sugar. The food is further
ground up by a series of hard ridges projecting into the inner face of
the gizzard (Fig. 4, 7). The secretion of the so-called hepatic caeca
is capable of emulsifying fat and rendering proteins soluble. Thus the
ordinary food substances are reduced to a condition in which they are
capable of diffusing from the lumen of the alimentary canal into the
blood which floods the body cavity.

 [Illustration: FIG. 4.—A female cockroach, _Periplaneta_, with the
 dorsal exoskeleton removed, dissected to show the viscera. Magnified
 about 2. 1, Head; 2, labrum; 3, antenna, cut short; 4, eye; 5, crop;
 6, nervous system of crop; 7, gizzard; 8, hepatic caeca; 9, mid-gut
 or mesenteron; 10, Malpighian tubules; 11, colon; 12, rectum; 13,
 salivary glands; 14, salivary receptacle; 15, brain; 16, ventral
 nerve cord with ganglia; 17, ovary; 18, spermatheca; 19, oviduct;
 20, genital pouch, in which the egg-cocoon is found; 21, colleterial
 glands; 22, anal cercus. (From Latter.)]

The external movement—one might almost say ‘the panting’—which is very
obvious in the abdomen, the alternate flattening and deepening of
this part of the body, is a movement of inspiration and expiration,
the air being driven into the stigmata and so into the tracheae or
breathing-tubes. There is a considerable variation in the rate of these
pulsations, but the cockroach’s heart beats at an average rate of
seventy to eighty contractions per minute.

Although cockroaches have fairly developed eyes, they seem to trust
very largely to tactile impressions in appreciating their relations
to the surrounding world. Their antennae and the palps of their first
and second maxillae are constantly touching the surface on which they
are resting or moving, and from time to time their antennae wildly
wave in the air in a manner which suggests that they are smelling out
the external circumstances which environ them. The 39,000 sensory
‘nerve-endings’ which are found in the antennae of the male cockroach
are almost certainly olfactory in function. At the posterior end of
the body the two ‘cerci’ are also sensitive to tactile impressions, and
probably act at the hinder end of the cockroach as the antennae act at
the forward end. Cockroaches are certainly keenly sensitive to light,
and, as every one knows, they shun the light, and when detected in
daylight or candle-light they make as quickly as they can for some dark
hole or crevice in which to hide.

 [Illustration: FIG. 5.—Egg capsule of _P. orientalis_ (magnified). A,
 External view; B, opened; C, end view. (From Miall and Denny.)]

Cockroaches breed during the summer, and their eggs are laid in packets
of sixteen in a capsule or cocoon with rounded ends, and with an upper
corrugated edge. These cocoons are very like the little hand-bags
ladies have carried since the dressmakers denied them pockets. There
are sixteen ovarian tubes in the female, and each of these deposits
one egg in each cocoon. The ventral portion of the seventh abdominal
segment in the female is shaped like the prow of a boat, and it is in
this structure that the cocoon, or egg-case, is built up. Each egg is
fertilised by a spermatozoon which has been deposited by the male in
the spermatheca of the female. The eggs are placed in a double row,
eight in each row, facing each other, and, as they gradually develop,
it becomes apparent that the ventral face of one row faces the ventral
face of the other row—just as the little choir-boys on the Gospel side
of a chancel face the little choir-boys on the Epistle side, but much
nearer together—and that their heads are all directed towards the
corrugated ridge.

They are at first quite white, but with large black eyes, and it
has often struck me how surprised they must be when they awake
to consciousness and find themselves staring at a brother or
sister cockroach just opposite, of whom they have had hitherto no
consciousness. The ripe embryos secrete some fluid, probably saliva,
which dissolves the ridge, and it is through this dissolved or softened
ridge that they ultimately make their way into the outer world.

Young cockroaches are very active, running about and seeking everywhere
for any food of a starchy nature. They are, in fact, miniatures of
their parents, for a cockroach, like many of the primitive insects, has
a direct development, and there are no such stages as caterpillar and
pupa in their life-history.

But, like other insects, cockroaches change their skin from time to
time, and they lose little time before beginning this ecdysis, for
they first cast their cuticle immediately after escaping from the
egg-capsule. The second ecdysis is four weeks later, and the third at
the end of the first year, and after this time they moult annually. At
the seventh moult, when the animal is now four years old, it assumes
the form of the perfect insect, and is capable of reproduction. The
later moults fall in the summer time, and so does fertilisation and
oviposition. Male cockroaches may be distinguished from the females by
their well-developed wings and wing-covers. They stand higher on their
legs than do the females, whose abdomens often trail upon the ground.

In spite of the noxious secretion of their abdominal glands there are
creatures who habitually feed on cockroaches—hedgehogs, for instance,
are frequently imported into our houses to check these pests. Rats,
cats, polecats, frogs, and wasps have been known to eat them, and some
few of the digging-wasps lay them down in their larders for the use
of their progeny. Some birds will also tackle them. But even the most
devoted friend of cockroaches can find little to say in their favour,
except that they are currently reported to form the basis of the
flavouring of a very popular sauce; but even wild cockroaches will not
drag from me what the name of that particular sauce is.




                              CHAPTER II

                      COCKROACHES (_Periplaneta_)

                                PART II

 In Russia the small Asiatic cockroach (_P. orientalis_) has everywhere
 driven before it its greater congener (_P. germanica_).
                                        (DARWIN, _Origin of Species_.)


Cockroaches do a very considerable amount of damage by consuming
food-supplies. But they do not stop at food-supplies: woollen clothing,
newspapers—not a really great loss—blacking, ink, leather, and even
emery-paper, are all to their taste, and, being of an economical frame
of mind, they devour their own cast skins and the dead bodies of their
relatives. The late Professor Moseley recorded how on one occasion,
when on the circumnavigating tour of H.M.S. _Challenger_, a number of
cockroaches took up their abode in his cabin and devoured parts of his
boots, ‘nibbling off all the margins of leather projecting beyond the
seams on the upper leathers.’ He further records:—

 One huge winged cockroach baffled me in my attempts to get rid of
 him for a long time. I could not discover his retreat. At night he
 came out and rested on my book-shelf at the foot of my bed, swaying
 his antennae to and fro, and watching me closely. If I reached out
 my hand from bed to get a stick, or raised my book to throw it at
 him, he dropped at once on the deck, and was forthwith out of harm’s
 way. He bothered me much, because, when my light was out, he had a
 familiar habit of coming to sip the moisture from my face and lips,
 which was decidedly unpleasant, and awoke me often from a doze. I
 believe it was with this object that he watched me before I went to
 sleep. I often had a shot at him with a book or other missile as he
 sat on the book-shelf, but he always dodged and escaped. His quickness
 and agility astonished me. At last I triumphed by adopting the advice
 of Captain Maclear and shooting him with a pellet of paper from my
 air-gun, a mode of attack for which he was evidently unprepared.

It is on record that cargoes of cheeses have been destroyed by
cockroaches on ships. Not only did they devour great quantities of each
cheese, but they defiled every one of them with their very tenacious
fluid which has, as we have noted above, a most disgusting smell. This
the cockroaches poured out from their stink-glands, making the cheeses
of no commercial value.

When a cockroach casts its skin a median longitudinal slit appears
on the back of the thorax, and through this slit the insect slowly
emerges. With much labour and difficulty it squeezes its body through
and pulls one limb after another from its old integument, until at last
even the long whip-like antennae are completely withdrawn. Certain
portions of its inner anatomy—such as the lining of parts of the
breathing-tubes, or tracheae—are also withdrawn. Should the discarded
skin not be eaten by the emergent insect, it remains on the floor, and
might easily be mistaken for a sedentary cockroach but for the fact
that live cockroaches never are sedentary.

 [Illustration: FIG. 6.—Cast skin of older nymph (pupa). × 2½. (From
 Miall and Denny.)]

 [Illustration: FIG. 7.—Nymph (in last larval stage) escaping from old
 skin. Magnified. (From Miall and Denny.)]

The incomplete metamorphosis, the generalised character of the nervures
of the hind wings, the complete separation of the three thoracic
segments (or rather their want of that fusion so conspicuous in the
higher insects—the flies and the bees) and the undifferentiated
condition of the mouth parts—all point to the insect being of a
primitive type. But there is no doubt that, whether a primitive
insect or not, the cockroach is a very successful one; it is an
_arriviste_—as ‘our lively friend, the Gaul,’ to quote Mr. Micawber,
would say—probably owing to its attaching itself in all cases, and
with unvaried devotion to the habitation of men. Not popular with
humanity, it nevertheless ceaselessly extends its domain by slowly yet
surely entering into new and hitherto unconquered human habitations.
In spite of insect-traps and vermin-killers, it is extremely difficult
to eradicate from a house when once it is well established. It has, in
fact, gradually dislodged in most places in Great Britain and Ireland
the old domestic house-cricket. For in spite of its irritating, and to
some people quite maddening, ticking, the ‘cricket-on-the-hearth’ has
somehow established itself as a household pet, and one that has won not
only our respect but our affection. So curious is our psychology.

 The cockroach has many enemies, and the genus _Sphex_ (or _Chlorion_)
 may be seen hunting about here and there, up and down the road-side
 and gardens, searching for its favourite prey. It spies out a
 cockroach, which appears to know intuitively that there is danger at
 hand, for it shows symptoms of great fright, and seems so confused
 that it cannot run away. The _Chlorion_ pounces upon the insect,
 clasps it with its mandibles between the head and the corselet, and
 stabs it in the body with the sting. Then it flies off for a little
 distance, and awaits the effects of the poison thus introduced; and
 when the convulsions of the victim have ceased, the clever little
 insect seizes its stupefied prey, and drags the heavy burden with
 great efforts to its nest. Usually the opening of the cavity is so
 narrow that the cockroach cannot be got in, for its legs and wings
 stick out and prevent its introduction. But the _Chlorion_ sets to
 work and cuts off the legs and the wings, and having thus lessened
 the difficulty, it strives hard to push the body into the hole; but
 as this plan usually fails, the hymenopteron enters first of all,
 seizes the cockroach with its mandibles, and drags it in with all its
 force. As the integuments of the _Blatta_ are more or less soft and
 flexible, the great insect is at last forced into the gallery, where
 it never could have been expected to have entered. Such proceedings on
 the part of the _Chlorion_ almost verge upon the domain of reason; and
 it is difficult to explain them by the notion of that very indefinite
 quality called instinct, for the manœuvres vary according to the
 circumstances, and there appears to be an intelligent method of
 overcoming every difficulty.[1]

Apart from animals which eat it, there are a number of parasites
which infest it, beginning with the parasitic beetle _Symbius
blattarum_, whose wingless females attach themselves to the bodies
of the cockroaches and feed upon their tissues. Then occasionally a
round-worm, _Filaria rhytipleurites_, whose sexual stage is passed
in the rat, is found in its larval stage in the fat bodies of the
cockroach.

Two years ago Dr. C. Conyers Morrell undertook some investigations
and observations as to what part, if any, cockroaches played in the
dissemination of pathogenic microbes, his object being, as he says,
‘first to ascertain what bacilli belonging to the colon group are
likely to be conveyed to food and milk by this insect, and secondly
to find whether known bacteria and moulds can be transmitted by the
faeces.’ Dr. Conyers Morrell’s experiments were conducted on one of the
Union Castle liners sailing to South Africa, and the insects which were
investigated were collected only from the larder or passages adjacent
to the kitchens; in no case were they taken from lavatories or from
staterooms. The general condition of the ship, which was almost new,
was one of exceptional cleanliness, and thus afforded good conditions
for the experiments. Dr. Morrell was of opinion that there was little
danger except by contamination from the faeces of the infected insect.

[1] _The Transformation of Insects_, by P. M. Duncan. London: Cassell,
Petter, Galpin and Co., 1882.

One of his first experiments was to prove that should cockroaches
fall into the dough which was being baked for bread the heat of the
baking entirely destroyed the bacilli that were in the alimentary canal
of the insect. With regard to infection with the colon bacillus, he
kept an infected insect under the best antiseptic conditions he could
compass until it had passed some undigested food. Of this undigested
food an emulsion was prepared, and cultures were made from it on
bile-salt medium and in litmus-milk. Afterwards special cultures were
made in gelatine and peptone solutions. Incubation was conducted in
all cases at 37° C., and cultures were made from seventeen specimens.
Five of these produced colonies of bacilli on the bile-salt medium,
with sub-culture results as follows: Four produced acidity and
clotting of milk, acid, and gas in glucose, lactose, and saccharose,
and production of indol. But the bacilli did not liquefy gelatine,
and were Gram-negative. One specimen produced gas in glucose and
lactose, and liquefied gelatine and coagulated milk. The former in its
reaction corresponded to the _Bacillus lactis aërogenes_, the latter to
_Bacillus cloacae_. In five cases greenish moulds of the _Aspergillus_
variety were found after inoculating litmus-milk.

Cockroaches will devour human sputum with avidity, and are frequently
to be found in spittoons (or, as the more delicately minded American
calls them, ‘cuspidors’[2]), and it is interesting to know that after
feeding the insects on infected sputum from a tuberculous patient, the
tubercle bacilli are found in the faeces within twenty-four hours; two
specimens which had been fed on staphylococci showed these pathogenic
organisms in their faeces and in the cultures on agar-agar, which were
obtained from their dejecta.

I have quoted largely from this important paper, and now propose
to quote a good deal more, and thus I append Dr. Conyers Morrell’s
conclusion of the important experiments he conducted on the Union
Castle liner.

[2] From the Portuguese ‘cuspidor.’ Cf. the Latin ‘conspuere.’

The foregoing experiments, though insufficient in number to afford a
basis for working out percentage results, are, I think, of some value,
in that they prove the following facts:—

The common cockroach is able by contamination with its faeces (1) to
bring about the souring of milk; (2) to infect food and milk with
intestinal bacilli; (3) to transmit the tubercle bacillus; (4) to
disseminate pathogenic staphylococci; (5) to transmit from place to
place destructive moulds.

These facts, taken in conjunction with the life-habits of the insect,
lead to the conclusion that the cockroach is able to and may possibly
play a small part in the dissemination of tuberculosis, and in
the transmission of pyogenic organisms; that the insect is in all
probability an active agent in the souring of milk kept in kitchens
and larders; and that it is undoubtedly a very important factor in
the distribution of moulds to food and to numerous other articles,
especially when they are kept in dark cupboards and cellars where
cockroaches abound. The distribution and numbers of the cockroach are
rapidly increasing, and unless preventive measures are adopted the
insect is likely in the course of time to become a very troublesome and
possibly a very dangerous domestic pest.[3]

[3] _British Medical Journal_, 1911, ii. 1531.




                              CHAPTER III

                 THE BOT- OR WARBLE-FLY (_Hypoderma_)

                     Apropos de bottes.—(REYNARD.)


Britain wants many materials in this war, and as long as our back
door is open we are getting them. Petrol, rubber, zinc, copper,
molybdenum, vanadium, thorium, nickel, saltpetre, wool, cotton,
are all coming to us in greater—immeasurably greater—quantities
than those in which they can filter through neutral countries into
Germany. These things count. The shortage of leeches in Great Britain,
on which I have already dwelt, is negligible, and is entirely
over-balanced by the really serious shortage of sausage-skins in
middle Europe. I am told that our meat-salesmen at Smithfield
were offered an incredible advance on the normal rate for these
products—so-very-necessary-and-under-no-circumstances-to-be-done
-without-with-casements—but the meat-salesmen at Smithfield were
patriots. In their dire extremity the Germans have been trying to make
them of cellulose.

Amongst the things both combatants most want is leather. One of the
most impressive efforts we non-combatants have been watching, since
August 1914, is an army growing, near us and next us, with apparently
an unlimited supply of leather belts, leather trappings, leather
saddlery—leather harness for man and beast. Yet they tell me that
the price of leather since the War began has appreciated by 140 per
cent. This may be so; but, as Joseph Finsbury remarked in ‘The Wrong
Box,’ ‘there is nothing in the whole field of commerce more surprising
than the fluctuations of the leather market. Its sensitiveness may
be described as morbid.’ But Joseph was no business-man, and kept in
the background of the office a capable Scot who was understood to
have a certain talent for book-keeping. Readers of Stevenson will
remember that nobody had ever made money out of Finsbury Brothers,
Leather-merchants, except the capable Scot who retired (after his
discharge) to the neighbourhood of Banff, and built a castle with his
profits. There are still many capable Scots about, and this may, to
some extent, account for the present price of Sam Browne belts.

There must have been well over 150,000 Sam Browne belts made since the
War began. A widespread belief—at any rate, amongst the junior members
of the Army—is that Sam Browne was an American; possibly some slight
confusion existed in their dear young minds between the inventor of the
belt and John Brown whose ‘body lies,’ &c. The inventor of this useful
cincture was, however, Sir Samuel James Browne (1824-1901), G.C.B.,
K.C.S.I., the well-known Indian fighter, who lost an arm, and gained a
V.C. by his gallantry during the Mutiny. He was for a time the military
member of the Governor-General’s Council, and he commanded the first
division of the Peshawar Field Force during the Afghan War of 1878-9.
The 22nd Regiment in the Indian Army, a frontier force, is known as Sam
Browne’s Cavalry.

The belt was first used unofficially, but it gradually found favour
with the authorities, and it is mentioned officially in the regulations
drawn up for the Straits Settlements in 1891, and for Egypt and West
Africa in 1894. It was only on April 24, 1900, that the pattern was
‘sealed,’ and adopted as a general item of equipment for all officers
on Active Service.

Anything that seriously destroys the continuity of the integument of
our oxen, which interferes with the ‘wholeness’ of the hide which is
the basis of leather, clearly affects—and affects detrimentally—an
important munition of war. The bot- or warble-fly does this. But
it does more: its attacks materially lessen the value of the beef
which potentially lies beneath the hide, and thus in a double sense
the warble-fly is the enemy of man whether he be soldier or sailor.
Further, its attacks seriously lessen the milk-supply of the country.

Amongst the numerous families into which the true flies (DIPTERA) are
divided, none are more harmful to human enterprise than that of the
_OESTRIDAE_, or bot-flies, inasmuch as every single species and every
single member of this family passes its larval stage within the tissues
of some vertebrate host, and frequently in those of domesticated
cattle; sometimes even in man himself. One of the commonest genera
of this family of flies is _Hypoderma_, which is represented in our
islands, and in many other parts of the world where domesticated cattle
are reared, by two species—_H. bovis_ and _H. lineatum_, both commonly
known as bot- or warble-flies.

The harm caused by these larvae, living as they do in the tissues of
the body, beneath the skin, by piercing holes through the integument or
skin, whereby they make their exit from the ‘warble’ or subcutaneous
tumour in which they have passed their latest larval stage, is almost
incalculable.

 [Illustration: FIG. 8.—_a_, _Hypoderma bovis_; _b_, maggot of _H.
 bovis_; _c_, egg of _H. bovis_; _d_, puparium of _H. bovis_; _e_,
 egg of _H. lineatum_; _f_, maggot of _H. lineatum_; _g_, _Hypoderma
 lineatum_. All the figures are magnified. (From F. V. Theobald’s
 _Second Report on Economic Zoology_, British Museum, 1904.)]

Miss Ormerod, who for so many years kept alight the lamp of economic
entomology in England, published some statistics on this subject
towards the end of the last century. In 1888, out of slightly over
100,000 hides dealt with in the Newcastle cattle and skin market,
60,000 were ‘warbled,’ and the loss to the trade amounted to £15,000.
The same year at Nottingham 8500 out of 35,000 hides were largely
spoiled; at Manchester 83,500 out of 250,000 suffered from the same
cause: the losses in these towns being estimated for the year in
question at about £2000 and £17,000 respectively. Taking the average
from all sources in England, Miss Ormerod estimated the fall in value
at from 5s. to 6s. on every warbled hide. The most riddled hides—that
is, those with the most punctures—come to the sale-room during April
and May, but the trouble extends from February to September.

There is also the loss caused by the warble to the butcher—and through
the butcher to the Army Service Corps. The presence of the fly-larva,
which is quite a large creature, induces chronic inflammation in the
tissues, and a state of things known to the trade as ‘licked beef,’
and unless the meat-salesman cuts away the affected parts the meat is
unsaleable in the market, or greatly depreciated in value. The average
loss to the butcher on a warbled carcass is estimated at 6_s._ 8_d._

Finally there is a loss to the stock-raiser and dairy farmer. We shall
have occasion later to refer to the curious psychological effect the
warble-fly has upon the cattle, causing them to ‘gad’ or stampede
in wild gallops, which interferes with fattening, deteriorates the
milk-supply, and is especially injurious to cows with calf. Mr. Imms,
in his most useful summary of the warble-fly, tells us that the loss
due to _H. lineatum_ in America is calculated at 28 per cent. of their
total value of all the cattle in the States. Some authorities place
the total loss to the agricultural community in England at £2,000,000,
others at £7,000,000, a year, whilst others estimate that the loss
amounts to about £1 sterling on every head of horned cattle.

Curiously enough, the fly itself is rarely seen, and still more rarely
taken. Mr. Imms records only two specimens of _H. bovis_ in the
collections of the British Museum, and but fifteen of _H. lineatum_. A
similar scarcity of imagos in public collections obtains on the other
side of the Atlantic, where for many years the last-named species
was alone recognised. Two years ago, however, Dr. Hadwen, working in
Canada, established the widespread existence of _H. bovis_ in the
Dominion; almost certainly it also occurs in the States; but Dr.
Hadwen had to send to Dublin for specimens with which to confirm his
find. None existed in the collections in Ottawa, and a ‘request for a
specimen ... from the Bureau of Entomology at Washington, D.C., could
not be granted owing to a scarcity of specimen’! These statements are
interesting, since at present the tanneries of Canada are working night
and day to help our shortage in leather at home.

_H. bovis_ measures ⅝ in. in length, _H. lineatum_, somewhat less
robust, ½ in.; the hairy covering of the last named is of a foxy red
at the tail end, while that of _H. bovis_ is yellow, both at the tail
end and towards the front of the body. The flies are most abundant
during July and August, though they are believed 