The Project Gutenberg eBook of Pneumonia: Its Care and Prevention, by
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Pneumonia: Its Care and Prevention

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: November 13, 2021 [eBook #66729]

Language: English


Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson, Donald Cummings and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PNEUMONIA: ITS CARE AND
PREVENTION ***


                               PNEUMONIA

                             _Its care and
                              prevention_




                            Copyright, 1940

              John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company
                       of Boston, Massachusetts

L63-9-40




                               PNEUMONIA

                        ITS CARE AND PREVENTION


                       Life Conservation Service
                                of the
                       JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE
                           INSURANCE COMPANY
                       of Boston, Massachusetts




An Urgent Message:

If you suspect that someone in your family has pneumonia, it is vital
that you call your doctor without a moment’s delay. If it is pneumonia,
hours will count. Newly introduced drugs have proved of great value in
curing pneumonia but early medical treatment and prompt nursing care
are necessary if the new treatment is to do the most good.

That you may know something about pneumonia, the kind of medical
treatment and nursing care required, and the ways by which the disease
may be prevented, this pamphlet is sent to you.

                       Life Conservation Service
                                of the
                       John Hancock Mutual Life
                           Insurance Company
                       of Boston, Massachusetts




                               PNEUMONIA
                        ITS CARE AND PREVENTION


Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs. Despite all the progress
recently made in the treatment of the disease, it remains among the
most common causes of death. Pneumonia is always a serious matter, and
should be regarded as an emergency calling for immediate medical care.

The inflammation of the lungs may be due to one of a number of
different kinds of germ, but the bacteria known as pneumococci cause
about four cases out of every five. There are several varieties, or
types, of pneumococci and the treatment may vary with the type. Your
doctor has at his command some new drugs[A] but for some types of
pneumonia he may combine the drug with a curative serum.

[A] The different members of this new family of drugs, sulfanilamide,
sulfapyridine, sulfathiazol, etc. are used depending upon the nature of
the pneumonia.

If the inflammation is due to one of the various other germs that cause
the remaining fifth of the pneumonia cases, still other treatment may
be needed. It is clear, then, that your physician should be called
promptly when pneumonia is suspected so that he may have the laboratory
tests made that will tell him with what kind of germ infection he has
to deal. Then he can decide what kind of treatment to employ.


                        Pneumonia Is Contagious

Pneumonia appears to be spread from person to person by contact, so it
is regarded as a communicable disease. As it is contagious, the spread
of infection can be stopped if precautions are taken to prevent the
transfer of the infectious material from the sick to the well. The
secretions from the nose and throat of persons sick with pneumonia,
or convalescing from the disease, usually carry the germs that cause
it. The transfer may take place through direct contact with these
secretions, or inhaling droplets of moist sputum expelled by the sick
person while coughing or sneezing.

Pneumonia is no respecter of persons. It may attack tiny babies, adults
in the prime of life, or elderly people: so everyone must be on guard.
This is especially true in late winter and early spring when the
disease is most likely to occur.

Pneumonia often begins during or just after an attack of the common
cold, grippe, whooping cough, or measles, and after surgical operations,
especially those upon the chest. In other conditions, such as unusual
and prolonged fatigue or exposure to bad weather resulting in a thorough
chilling, the chance of infection is increased.


                       Early Signs of Pneumonia

In most cases of pneumonia the disease is readily recognized. There
is often a preceding cold, but the onset of the pneumonia is usually
abrupt, with sharp pain in the side, fever, a cough, a sense of
chilliness or evident chills, and the expectoration of sputum streaked,
or tinged, with blood.

[Illustration: _Immediate medical and nursing care are vital in
pneumonia._]

If you should ever have any of these early signs of pneumonia, get
promptly into bed and stay there. Have your doctor called without a
moment’s delay. You will improve your chance of a quick recovery if
you give him the opportunity to determine the cause of your infection
before it is many hours old. Remember: the longer the disease exists
before treatment is begun, the more difficult it may prove to cure.


                           Finding the Cause

The exact cause of the inflammation can be determined only by a
laboratory examination of specimens of sputum or blood. Fortunately,
in most sections of the country, diagnostic services are now readily
available.

The kind of germ is determined earliest by examining specimens of
sputum.[B] Though the patient may have some difficulty in raising
sputum, enough for laboratory needs can almost always be obtained if
its importance is explained to him. The expectorated material should
come from the lungs, and should be as free as possible from mixture
with saliva and nasal secretions. The sputum can be collected in
any clean, wide-mouthed bottle, or a cardboard sputum box, and sent
without delay to the nearest laboratory. Within a short time a report
is returned to your doctor advising him of the findings of the
examination. If pneumococci have been found, the special type will be
named.

[B] Blood specimens are also of importance in diagnosis of the disease
and determining the course of treatment.

[Illustration: _Laboratories are now equipped to make prompt and
reliable examinations of sputum specimens._]


                       Hospital and Nursing Care

The new drugs which have been found so successful in curing pneumonia
occasionally make the patient nauseated and uncomfortable for a time.
The curative serums which are used for certain types of pneumonia,
also may sometimes produce unpleasant reactions temporarily. With both
treatments it is essential that the patient be watched over by alert
attendants at all times. Hence many doctors prefer that the pneumonia
patient be taken to the hospital as soon as he becomes sick so that he
can have the benefit of constant nursing care and so that everything
possible may be done to avoid unpleasant reactions or allay the
symptoms if they should occur.

If the patient must remain at home it is evident that he should have
the best possible nursing care. When a full-time nurse is not to be
in attendance, then the visiting nurse should be called in promptly.
She not only will give the care to the patient that the doctor orders
but will instruct the members of the family who must attend to the
patient’s needs during her absence.

In addition to receiving the treatment already discussed, it is
essential that the patient’s position in bed be changed at intervals to
relieve congestion and increase comfort. From lying on his back he may
be moved to one side or the other, but this, too, must be done for him.
So, it is evident that constant care is vitally needed.

The doctor’s orders must be followed to the last detail. Nothing
is unimportant. The nurse will assist the attendants in following
instructions. She will teach them what to observe in the patient’s
condition, how to report the progress of the disease to the physician,[C]
and will advise the members of the family how to prevent the spread of
the patient’s infection to others in the household.

[C] The two booklets, “Home Care of Communicable Diseases” and “Caring
for the Sick in the Home,” will prove useful as supplements to the
nurse’s instruction. They are free for the asking.


                         Preventing Pneumonia

In general, it may be said that a good physical condition of the body
lessens the chance of an attack of pneumonia. A sensible balance of
rest and exercise to prevent undue fatigue, eating nutritious meals,
and avoiding over-exposure and chilling, all may help. It is the part
of wisdom to stay indoors with a cold, and in bed while there is fever,
for your own benefit as well as to prevent giving your infection to
others.[D] While suffering from colds, grippe, tonsillitis, and the
like, care should be taken to avoid exposure to draughts and rapid
chilling of the body when overheated.

[D] “Living the Healthy Life” tells how to keep fit. “What to Eat and
Why” discusses the question of diet. “That Mean Cold” tells more in
detail about the care of colds. Copies of all these booklets will be
sent to anyone on request.

Overcrowding greatly increases the chance of spreading pneumonia
from person to person. When colds and other respiratory diseases are
prevalent, public gatherings should be avoided as much as possible.
Rules of health departments forbidding spitting should be strictly
obeyed by all. Special precautions should be taken against unnecessary
contact with pneumonia patients and those recently recovered from
the disease, who still may be carriers of the germ. This precaution
is especially important for persons who are run down, or have some
existing respiratory disease.

In the care of patients with pneumonia, the following precautions for
the protection of others must be observed:

If the patient is treated at home, only those responsible for his care
should be permitted in the sick-room.

The patient’s nasal discharges and sputum should be collected in pieces
of cloth or soft paper and burned promptly. Droplet infection may be
avoided by placing a piece of cloth or soft paper over the patient’s
mouth when he coughs or sneezes, and this cloth or paper should be
burned. Unnecessary contamination of bedding or clothing should be
prevented.

The patient’s eating utensils, bedding, and linen should be scalded and
washed in soap and hot water.

Dry sweeping or dusting of the sick-room should not be permitted;
cleaning can be done safely only with a damp cloth.

After each time that care is given to the patient, the attendant should
scrub her hands thoroughly.

Articles which cannot be washed should be thoroughly aired and exposed
to sunlight out-of-doors for a day.

[Illustration: _Dressed for the weather, outdoor exercise keeps the
body fit._]


                  Points to Remember about Pneumonia

Pneumonia may attack without warning, but often is preceded by a cold.

If chills, fever, pain in the chest, and sputum tinged with blood
occur, it is a signal to get to bed promptly and have the doctor called
immediately.

New drugs have proved to be of great benefit in treatment, but for
certain types of pneumonia both drugs and serum may be needed.

Good nursing care is vital. If the patient is not to be treated in
a hospital, provision should be made for a full-time nurse, or for
regular care by the visiting nurse.




                       Life Conservation Service
                                of the

                            [Illustration:

                            _John Hancock_
                                MUTUAL
                        LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
                       OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS]


L63-9-40                                         Printed in U. S. A.


                   *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber’s Notes:

 ――Text in italics is enclosed by underscores (_italics_).

 ――Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
   is public-domain in the country of publication.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PNEUMONIA: ITS CARE AND
PREVENTION ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
